In the beginning of the semester, we spent our time in practicum discussing different articles that discussed the power dynamic and gender and pronouns in the Latin language. The first article that stuck out to me was “Object-ifying Language” which discussed the importance of differentiating between active and passive voice to determine power structures. When reflecting on the discussion we had in our practicum classes, it is interesting for me to look back on my composition and translation assignments, and look at when and why I or the author of Hyginus, decided to use the passive voice. In English, passive voice can be used in newspaper articles to place emphasis on certain people or things, which could be detrimental or skew a story to benefit someone different. This concept is very interesting to reflect on when creating compositions and reading Hyginus, and I am excited to explore it more in the spring semester.
  
  Another discussion which was very beneficial to my understanding of the importance of Latin was after reading the article on Toxic Charity. It really opened my eyes to understanding how detrimental certain charity can be. Latin is something that is usually only accessible to privileged people, which is why we can use the language to move away from toxic charity, and give students who don’t have access to Latin a chance to learn it. This is why in practicum, we came up with lesson plans to hypothetically use in classrooms, which would be a great way to give back to the community of Worcester. I did online tutoring for the Nativity school this semester, where I tutored three 6th grade boys once a week. Reflecting on this experience, I tied this in with what I learned in practicum, and realized that helping these students academically, and hopefully teaching them Latin in the spring, is much more beneficial to them than just donating gifts or money, which can be a form of toxic charity that we learned.
  
  I learned French and Spanish growing up, but never really appreciated my accessibility and privilege to learn different languages until I started taking this class. It is a very unique topic that not many students get to experience, and I feel lucky to be able to take it. In addition, our discussions in practicum have helped me open my eyes to the real change we can bring to our students’ lives when we get to tutor them and teach them latin. I am very excited to be able to give back to Worcester in the spring, and give students a chance to learn a new language and a new culture. 
